# Assessment

As you can see in Lesson 01, this course allows for a great deal of freedom, and it is organized through gamification. Each participant creates a profile in the repository and earns skills (and *XP*) by completing the available activities. All submissions are made via PR to the course repository.

The final grade is a combination of the total amount of *XP* received for completing tasks, the amount of *XP* obtained from group members, and some barrier criteria. The table below summarizes these conditions:

Grade    | Score                | Extra Criteria
-------- | -------------------- | ------------------------------------------
I        | ----                 | Did not complete any tutorial activities
D        | ----                 | Completed all lesson activities but did not reach a *C* grade
C        | 45XP                 | <li>1 x Code Contribution + </li><li>Accepted Translation! <b>or</b> Documentation Contribution</li>
B        | 90XP                 | <li>Accepted Code Contribution</li>
A        | 150XP                |
A+       | 200XP                |

Throughout the semester, the scores in the table above may be revised downward, but never upward.

# Available Skills

Each skill translates into evidence for one of the learning objectives of the course. The collection of all the skills completed during the semester indicates the proficiency of the students in each of the objectives.

## Tutorial

In this initial part, preparatory activities are carried out to support the development of skills in **Code** and **Community** skills.

--8<-- "skills-tutorial.md"

## Code

Any activity that results in a code contribution to open-source software projects is accepted in the course.

--8<-- "skills-code.md"

## Community

A software project is also defined by the interactions of all the people around it: users, developers, and translators. This category includes non-technical contributions that benefit these individuals.

--8<-- "skills-community.md"

## Impact

This category encompasses skills that represent the impact generated by the activities performed within the context of the course, both on a software project and the community around it. This includes:

1. Presentations given by students
2. A large number of accepted contributions to a single project
3. Mentions of work done by the student on the project's social media
4. Releases containing commits made within the course's context
